


Misc

	Are there any breeds you're already interested in? What attracts you to them? 

	What experience do you have owning dogs? How about training dogs?
	
	What role is your dog expected to fill and how do you envision your dog fulfilling that role?


	What size dog are you looking for?

	Do you want a puppy, a young adult (1-3 years), an adult, or a senior? Why?

	Do you have a preference for rescuing a dog vs. going through a knowledgeable and reputable breeder?

Maintinance/Upkeep

	Have you budgeted for your dog, yearly care cost and additional emergency veterinary care and/or pet insurance? 

	On a scale of 1 to 10, How prepared are you to care for a dog and prioritize its well-being over your career, entertainment, or other life choices for the next 12 or more years? 


	How much shedding do you think you can handle? 

	How much regular brushing are you willing to do?

	How do you feel about slobber? What about farts?

	Are you open to trimming your dog's hair, cleaning ears, clipping nails, or doing other grooming at home? If not, would you be willing to pay a professional to do it regularly?

Environment 

	What is the general location in which you live?

	Do you rent or will you be renting in the future? If so, what breed or weight restrictions are on your lease and/or renter's insurance?
	
	What is the average temperature of a typical summer day where you live? A typical winter day?

	Who else lives in your household, and who will be responsible for taking care of the dog?


	Do you have other pets or are you planning on having other pets?

	How often do you have visitors to your home?

	Do have children, or do you often have visiting children, such as nieces, nephews, cousins, or friends' children?

Exercise & Schedule 

	How long can you exercise your dog each day, on average? What kinds of exercise are you planning to give your dog regularly?

	How long do you have to devote to mental stimulation each day?


	How often and for how long will the dog be left alone?

	Where will the dog be kept when alone and where will the dog sleep?

	If needed, could you hire a dog walker, pay for doggy day care, or come home during lunch to take care of your dog?

Behaviour & Training:

	
	What sorts of training do you want your adult dog to have? 

	How much barking is too much barking?

	Is there any behavior you can’t accommodate?

	How important is being able to let your dog roam off-leash in an unfenced area?

	How eager-to-please or independent do you want your dog to be?